import { GoogleGenAI } from "@google/genai";
import { Message, ChatMode } from "../types";

const SYSTEM_INSTRUCTIONS = {
  general: "You are iChat, a premium AI assistant built for iPhone. Your tone is sophisticated, concise, and helpful. Use iOS-style emojis occasionally. Format long lists with bullet points. Always provide actionable advice.",
  'passive-income': "You are the Wealth Strategist. Your mission is to help users generate passive income through technology, SaaS, and automation. You focus on scalability, low overhead, and high-margin systems. Be analytical, encouraging, and highly professional."
};

export class GeminiService {
  async sendMessage(
    history: Message[],
    currentMessage: string,
    mode: ChatMode = 'general',
    image?: string
  ): Promise<string> {
    const ai = new GoogleGenAI({ apiKey: process.env.API_KEY || '' });
    const modelName = 'gemini-3-flash-preview';
    
    const parts: any[] = [{ text: currentMessage }];
    
    if (image) {
      const base64Data = image.includes('base64,') ? image.split('base64,')[1] : image;
      const mimeType = image.match(/data:([^;]+);base64/)?.[1] || 'image/jpeg';
      parts.push({
        inlineData: {
          data: base64Data,
          mimeType: mimeType
        }
      });
    }

    try {
      const response = await ai.models.generateContent({
        model: modelName,
        contents: [
          ...history.slice(-10).map(msg => ({
            role: msg.role === 'user' ? 'user' : 'model',
            parts: [{ text: msg.content }]
          })),
          { role: 'user', parts: parts }
        ],
        config: {
          systemInstruction: SYSTEM_INSTRUCTIONS[mode],
          temperature: 0.7,
        }
      });

      // Use the .text property as per the latest SDK rules
      return response.text || "I'm sorry, I couldn't generate a response.";
    } catch (error: any) {
      console.error("Gemini API Error:", error);
      if (error.message?.includes("API_KEY")) {
        return "⚠️ Configuration Error: Please check your Gemini API key in Vercel settings.";
      }
      return "⚠️ Connection Error: I'm having trouble reaching the AI. Please try again later.";
    }
  }
}

export const geminiService = new GeminiService();
